---
layout:              post
type:                classic
title:               Highlight 2021
subtitle:            >
    My tech journey at Datadog as a software engineer and some side-projects in
    my free time.

lang:                en
date:                2021-12-30 14:12:23 +0100
categories:          [review]
tags:                [review, career]
ads_tags:            []
comments:            true
excerpt:             >
    TODO

image:               /assets/bg-markus-winkler-EcgyryGygeE-unsplash.jpg
cover:               /assets/bg-markus-winkler-EcgyryGygeE-unsplash.jpg
article_header:
  type:              overlay
  theme:             dark
  background_color:  "#203028"
  background_image:
    gradient:        "linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(0, 0, 0, .6), rgba(0, 0, 0, .4))"
wechat:              false
---

## Introduction

Writing an article to review the whole year becomes a tradition for me. After
writing a review for 5 consecutive years
([2016](/2016/09/01/projects-highlight-2015-2016/),
[2017](/2017/11/26/highlight-2017/),
[2018](/2018/12/21/highlight-2018/),
[2019](/2019/12/31/highlight-2019/),
[2020](/2021/01/02/highlight-2020/)), I decided to
continue this practice this year, to share with you my journey in the tech
industry as a software engineer at Datadog and other side-projects that I did
during my free time. Hopefully, they will let you learn something or inspire
you to create your story.
Now, let's get started!

## Datadog

I joined Datadog at the end of 2019 as a software engineer working for the Event
Platform. Event Platform ingests trillions of events per day for 30+ products:
Logs, APM, Profiling, Real User Monitoring (RUM), Security Analytics, Error
Tracking, Network Monitoring, and more. This year, I kept working on the storage
part of the platform, developping new solutions to ensure the data reliability,
reducing costs, and reduce operational work for other engineers.
Since the platform grew fast, having manual operations became
more and more painful. Operating the a large-scale system without dedicated
operations engineers and site-reliablity engineers (SRE) became very challenging.
What's why a new team called "Event Platform Automation" was created. And I have
the privilege to be part of this team since October 2021. The goal is to improve operability of the system by
automating repetitive tasks using workflows, simplifying the configuration and
code structure, providing verifications, and making the administration UI more
consistent.


**Indexold.** Indexold is a custom solution for data lifecycle management. It is
a state-machine which manages the lifecycle of the data once they are stored in
our system. Similar to Elasticsearch's [Index Lifecycle Management
(ILM)](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.16/overview-index-lifecycle-management.html),
it allows to move data from compution-intensive machines to storage-friendly
machines. It allows storing historical data in a cost efficient way, making
operations easy, having control about the data placement, and resilient to node
failures. The development of this project last over 3 quarters and we have about
3 engineers working on it at full time. I mainly participated to: storage
optimization, re-snapshotting, data deletion, rollout to production (AWS, GCP,
Azure), and maintenance.

**Automation (workflows).**

**Interviewers.**

## Blogging

In 2021, I wrote 42 articles (25 in English and 17 in Chinese).

**Focus on search.** Most of these new articles are
related to Elasticsearch. For example, there are series ["DVF"](/en/series/dvf/)
which demonstrates Elasticsearch's usage for indexing, storage, search, and analytics
using French open dataset for real-estate: "Demande de valeurs foncières
(DVF)"; series ["Elasticsearch Snapshots"](/en/series/es-snapshots/) which
explores different aspects of feature "Snapshot And Restore" in Elasticsearch;
series ["Elasticsearch Cluster Administration"](/en/series/es-admin/) which
provides hints for managing Elasticsearch clusters in production.

**Advertising.** This year I added the advertising feature for my blog. I wanted
to do this because having revenue gives me motivation to keep writing. I chose
[EthicalAds](https://www.ethicalads.io/) because its advertising is transparent
for readers: they don't use cookies to track users, but they match ads based on
the content of the site. The ads are relevant to technologies. Currently I earn
... // Revenue report

// Audience

In 2022, I would like to continue my focus on data storage because this is
my expertise and hopefully they will be valuable for you as well. Then, I would
also like to expand the scope to see the bigger picture: performing architecture
reviews, translating engineering blogs written by other engineers, writing series of blog
posts, etc. Then it will also be great to increase the publishing cadence,
because it took me oo long to write one article. I want to improve
that by introducint new blog post type: question-and-answer (Q&A), which is a
short article containing one question and one answer. Hopefully, it would be
possible for readers to subscribe to my maling list, so that I can share the
update at a weekly or monthly basis.

## Other Projects

I tried other projects as well. But most of the projects are unsuccessful, but
I think it's still worth sharing why I tried and why it didn't work.

**Vavr** (❌). Vavr is a object-functional library that runs with Java 8+. I tried to
persuade my teammates to integrate this library in our backend during a
hackathon. However, the idea was rejected because the naming of vavr's types
(List, Set, Map, ...) are too invasive and therefore conflicting with the
standard Java library. So it's hard to keep both during migration. Also, it's
hard to prove its performance for the critical path (having millions of messages
being handled by seconds). My proposal was rejcted. I didn't see
any perspective of using this framework in the short-term or mid-term. Therefore, I
decided to stop the contribution and move forwards to something else.

**Finance-toolkit** (🐢). Finance toolkit is a small library helping you to
understand your personal financial situation by extracting, transforming and
aggregating transations from different companies into a single place:
BNP Paribas, Boursorama, Degiro, October, and Revolut. It generates CSV files
that can be used for data visualization in Jupyter Notebook.
It was created in 2019 and written in Python by
[Jingwen Zheng](https://github.com/jingwen-z/) and I, with some help from
[Mickaël Schoentgen](https://github.com/BoboTiG).
This project still continue with a slow pace.

**Sunny** (🤔). [Sunny Tejiao](https://sunnytj.info/#/) (阳光特教网) is a
non-commercial website that I created last year. It aims to help Chinese
teachers working in the special education to better gather Chinese-version
material for preparing their courses. I did this during my holidays because I
feel like that there is a lack of Chinese resources in mainland China and it's
hard for teachers to search from the open internet due to the government
restrictions. I did this also because my mother is a teacher working in a school for
special education. Therefore, I feel like it's a good opportunity for doing so.
However, I had to pause the project because my mother didn't have enough time to
help me and she probably had other priorities in her life.

**Linky** (🤔). My neighberhood complained about the expense of electricity in
the common part of our building. As you may know, the smart French eletric meter
"Linky" has a tele-info client (TIC) which allows you to plug a third party
client to extract and monitor the data produced by the meter (precision: one
data point/s). I have several colleagues who had successfully installed this and
transferred the data to Datadog. I plan to try it myself and see if we have
better insights. The goal is mainly to learn how to use Datadog products for
dog-fooding.

## Conclusion

What did we talk in this article? Take notes from introduction again.
Interested to know more? You can subscribe to [the feed of my blog](/feed.xml), follow me
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mincong_h) or
[GitHub](https://github.com/mincong-h/). Hope you enjoy this article, see you the next time!

## References
